Revered in many countries,
football is today a global sport,
where governments and supporters
display national pride and patriotism.
In the eyes of many young people,
the heroes of the round ball embody a true model of success,
and an example to follow.
But as you will discover,
it was not always so.
In medieval England,
the ball game did not have strict rules.
No limit was set on the number of players,
all the blows were allowed,
and the streets of the cities were systematically transformed
in real battlefield
where destruction, serious injury and death were commonplace.
In London, the parties became so chaotic
that artisans and merchants asked King Edward II to put an end to it.
In response, the latter declared outlaw this dangerous game
and threatened anyone who would touch a bullet again.
But this decision had the effect of a wet firecracker,
and the craze for football continued to grow.
Soon he turned men away from compulsory service,
vital to the defense of the kingdom:
the practice of the war arc.
After all, why shoot arrows at inert targets,
when we can draw some good potatoes
in the face of his colleagues?
Upset, the king banished then
purely and simply football of England.
His successor will not return to this decision.
Proof that football then became for the whole country
not only a real passion,
but also a national security problem.
But nothing works, and the power, again ignored,
will have to tighten the laws in force.
At present, any troublemaker player
would end up chained to shackles and humiliated in a public place.
Fines or prison sentences would punish others.
In the middle of the 18th century,
England promulgated a new law on the ownership of the land.
Consequence, open land
- and so used by the community to play -
passed to private use.
The enthusiasts therefore had no other choice
than to fall back on the only remaining public space:
the street.
It's only a century later
that the British government finally reached the goal:
by prohibiting, by way of fines,
the practice of the ball on the public road.
From now on, the players had to go on a ground reserved for this sport,
who was finally recognized as such.
# Subtitles: El Micà